# State management

The application uses the Ngrx Signal Store as a state management solution. NgRx SignalStore is a fully-featured state management solution that offers a robust way to manage application state. With its native support for Signals, it provides the ability to define stores in a clear and declarative manner.

To know more about it, check out the official documentation as well as a couple of attached articles:

https://ngrx.io/guide/signals/signal-store
https://www.angulararchitects.io/en/blog/the-ngrx-signal-store-and-your-architecture/
https://www.stefanos-lignos.dev/posts/ngrx-signals-store

## Literature:

`Enterprise Angular: Micro Frontends and Moduliths with Angular` by Manfred Steyer (p.145 - 184)

## Custom store features

The application offers a collection of helper functions that extend the basic functionality of the Ngrx Signal Store:

### Store

1. `callStateStore`

Creates a store instance used to track request status and set an error while working with a simple request that doesn't fetch data:

```ts
const updateUserCallState = callStateStore();

const http = inject(HttpClient);

updateUserCallState.setRequestStatus('Loading');

http.post('SOME_URL', payload).pipe(
  tap(() => {
    updateUserCallState.setRequestStatus('Success');
    updateUserCallState.setError(null);
  }),
  catchError((error) => {
    updateUserCallState.setRequestStatus('Failed');
    updateUserCallState.setError(error);
    return EMPTY;
  }),
);

updateUserCallState.error; // Signal<PGError<HttpResponseError>>;
updateUserCallState.requestStatus; // Signal<RequestStatus>;
```

2. `dataStore`

Creates a store instance that performs the same work as `callStateStore`, but with the only difference being that it expects data retrieval. For that purpose, it exposes additional methods called `setData` and `clearData`:

```ts
const userStore = dataStore<User | null>(null);

const http = inject(HttpClient);

userStore.setRequestStatus('Loading');

http.put('SOME_URL', payload).pipe(
  tap((user) => {
    userStore.setData(user);
    userStore.setRequestStatus('Success');
    userStore.setError(null);
  }),
  catchError((error) => {
    userStore.clearData();
    userStore.setRequestStatus('Failed');
    userStore.setError(error);
    return EMPTY;
  }),
);

updateUserCallState.data; // Signal<User | null>;
```

3. `simpleEntitiesStore`

Creates a store instance that performs the same work as `callStateStore`, but with the only difference being that it expects data retrieval of a `collection`. For that purpose, it exposes additional methods: `setAllEntities`, `prependEntities`, `appendEntities`, `clearAllEntities`:

```ts
const countriesStore = simpleEntitiesStore<Country>();

const http = inject(HttpClient);

countriesStore.setRequestStatus('Loading');

http.get('SOME_URL').pipe(
  tap((countries) => {
    countriesStore.setAllEntities(countries);
    countriesStore.setRequestStatus('Success');
    countriesStore.setAllEntities(countries);
  }),
  catchError((error) => {
    countriesStore.clearAllEntities();
    countriesStore.setRequestStatus('Failed');
    countriesStore.setError(error);
    return EMPTY;
  }),
);

updateUserCallState.entities; // Signal<Country[]>;
```

4. `extendedEntitiesStore`

Compared to `simpleEntitiesStore`, the `extendedEntitiesStore` provides more functionality to work with entities and uses the built-in `withEntities` ngrx feature under the hood. It exposes additional methods: `setEntities`, `setEntity`, `addEntity`, `removeEntity`, and `clearEntities`.

```ts
const countriesStore = extendedEntitiesStore<Country>({ idKey: 'id' });

countriesStore.setEntities([{ id: 1 }, { id: 2 }]);

countriesStore.removeEntity(1);

updateUserCallState.entities; // Signal<Country[]>;
```

### Effects

1. `rxRequest`

The `rxRequest` method is a standalone factory function designed for managing side effects and built on top of the `rxMethod` function from the `ngrx` library:

```ts
const updateUserCallState = callStateStore();

const updateUser = rxRequest<UpdateUserRequest>({
  requestFn: (payload) => inject(UsersApi).updateUser(payload),
  store: updateUserCallState,
});

updateUser.updateUser({ id: 1 });
```

Overall, the function provides a structured approach to handling asynchronous requests, including error handling and status updates, with the flexibility to customize behavior through callback functions and parameters.

The expected paramters are:

`requestFn`: A function that takes an input of type Input and returns an observable or a promise of type Response.
`store`: An optional parameter allows passing a store that will be used for setting of error and tracking a request status.
`errorHandler`: An optional function to handle HTTP errors.
`shouldFetch`: An optional function to determine whether to fetch data based on the input.
`onError`: An optional callback function invoked when an error occurs.
`onSuccess`: An optional callback function invoked when the request succeeds.

In most cases, we would want to pass the `store` parameter since the `rxRequest` method significantly reduces the boilerplate of tracking a request status and error handling, as it handles all this under the hood.

2. `fetchData` and `fetchEntities`

The `fetchEntities` and `fetchData` utility functions are built on top of the `rxRequest` method. They are designed to handle common scenarios of fetching collections of entities or single data objects from a data source, such as an API.

```ts
const countriesStore = simpleEntitiesStore<Country>();

const fetchCountries = fetchEntities({
  requestFn: () => inject(CountriesApi).fetchAllCountries(),
  store: countriesStore,
});

const userStore = dataStore<User | null>(null);

const fetchUser = fetchData<User['id']>({
  requestFn: (id) => inject(UsersApi).fetchById(id),
  store: userStore,
});
```

`fetchEntities`: This function is used to fetch a collection of entities from a data source. It takes generic parameters for the type of entity being fetched (Entity) and any additional input needed for the request. The FetchEntitiesParams interface extends RxRequestParams to include specific functionality for managing collections of entities. The store property of the parameters includes a method `setAllEntities` to set the entire collection of entities in the store once fetched. Under the hood, it utilizes the rxRequest method, intercepting the response and updating the store with the fetched collection.

`fetchData`: This function is similar to `fetchEntities` but is tailored for fetching single data objects instead of collections. It takes generic parameters for the type of data being fetched (Data) and any additional input needed for the request. The `FetchDataParams` interface extends `RxRequestParams` to include specific functionality for managing single data objects. Like `fetchEntities`, the store property includes a method `setData` to set the fetched data object in the store once retrieved. It also utilizes the `rxRequest` method under the hood to handle the request and update the store with the fetched data.
